**Hooks** are a new addition in React 16.8. They let you use state and other React features without writing a classes.

**React hooks allows you to encapsulate state and share logic**. With hooks you can make the logic of some huge components reusable to share it between components and avoid duplication.

React Hooks improve the development experience by using [[1. Концепции#Composition vs Inheritance|composition instead of inheritance]] by relying on functions, not classes, they bring the missing piece of React, sharing logic between functional components, with a sophisticated way, Hooks make the need for the patterns like prop drilling, render props, and HOCs for the most cases unnecessary.

**React hooks come to solve these nowadays problems:**

-   Wrapper hell (caused by design patterns: HOC, render prop, drilling prop)
-   Huge components (that hard to test and maintain, hard to co-locate code)
-   Confusing classes (this keyword, hard to make it reusable)

## Hooks rules

1. Only Call Hooks at the Top Level i.e. _not_ within conditionals, loops, or nested functions.
2. Only Call Hooks from React Functions i.e. Functional Components and Custom Hooks.

## Pros and Cons

**Pros**:

-   A better alternative to some common design patterns.
-   Easy to test and maintain (functional components).
-   Create re-usable, isolated components to avoid redundant logic.
-   Easy to use and write and co-locate.

**Cons**:

-   Have to respect its rules, without a linter plugin it is difficult to know which rule has been broken.
-   Need a considerable time practicing to use them properly (Exp: useEffect).
-   Be aware of the wrong use (Exp: useCallback, useMemo).



