# REST
**REST** (Representational State Transfer) refers to a group of software architecture design constraints that bring about efficient, reliable and scalable distributed systems.

also it's software architectural style that describes a uniform interface between physically separate components, often across the Internet in a Client-Server architecture.

## Architectural concepts

The REST architectural style is designed for network-based applications, specifically client-server applications. But more than that, it is designed for Internet-scale usage, so the coupling between the **user agent** (client) and the **origin server** must be as lightweight (loose) as possible to facilitate large-scale adoption. This is achieved by creating a layer of abstraction on the server by defining **resources** that encapsulate **entities** (e.g. files) on the server and so hiding the underlying implementation details (file server, database, etc.).

But the definition is even more general than that: any information that can be named can be a resource: an image, a database query, a temporal service, or even a collection of other resources. This approach allows the greatest interoperability between clients and servers in a long-lived Internet-scale environment which crosses organisational (trust) boundaries.

## Architectural properties

The constraints of the REST architectural style affect the following architectural properties
-   **performance** in component interactions, which can be the dominant factor in user-perceived performance and network efficiency;
-   **scalability** allowing the support of large numbers of components and interactions among components;
-   **simplicity** of a uniform interface;
-   **modifiability** of components to meet changing needs (even while the application is running);
-   **visibility** of communication between components by service agents;
-   **portability** of components by moving program code with the data;
-   **reliability** in the resistance to failure at the system level in the presence of failures within components, connectors, or data.

## REST vs RESTful
The REST architectural style defines six guiding constraints. When these constraints are applied to the system architecture, it gains desirable non-functional properties, such as performance, scalability, simplicity, modifiability, visibility, portability, and reliability. A system that complies with some or all of these constraints is loosely referred to as RESTful.

### The formal REST constraints are as follows:

- Client–server architecture
- Statelessness
- Cacheability
- Layered system
- Code on demand (optional)
- Uniform interface

## Semantics of HTTP methods

| Http methods | Description                                                                                                              |
|:------------:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
|     GET      | Get a representation of the target resource’s state.                                                                     |
|     POST     | Let the target resource process the representation enclosed in the request.                                              |
|     PUT      | Create or replace the state of the target resource with the state defined by the representation enclosed in the request. |
|    PATCH     | Partially update resource’s state.                                                                                       |
|    DELETE    | Delete the target resource’s state.                                                                                      |
|   OPTIONS    | Advertising the available methods.                                                                                       |


## Idempotention 

In the context of REST APIs, when making multiple identical requests has the same effect as making a single request – then that REST API is called **idempotent**.

### Idempotency with HTTP Methods

1.  `POST` is NOT idempotent.
2.  `GET`, `PUT`, `DELETE`, `HEAD`, `OPTIONS` and `TRACE` are idempotent.

So when we invoke the same POST request N times, we will have N new resources on the server. So, **POST is not idempotent**.

If you invoke a `PUT` API N times, the very first request will update the resource; the other N-1 requests will just overwrite the same resource state again and again – effectively not changing anything. So **PUT is idempotent**.
