## GraphQL

GraphQL is a query language for APIs and a runtime for fulfilling those queries with your existing data

---

## Problems with REST

### Server driven selection

With REST, you might have something like:

```http
GET api.example.com/users/123?include=friend.friend.name&friend.friend.ocupation=engineer
```

GraphQL allows you to represent this query in a cleaner way:

```GraphQL
{
 user(id: 123) {
   friends {
     friends(job: "engineer") {
       name
     }
   }
 }
}
```

### Fetching multiple resources

One of the main benefits of GraphQL is to make APIs less chatty. Many of us have seen an API where we first have to `GET /user` first and then fetch each friend individually via `GET /user/:id/friend/:id` endpoint, this can result in N+1 queries and is a will known performance issue in API and database queries. In other words, RESTful API calls are chained on the client before the final representation can be formed for display. GraphQL can reduce this by enabling the server to aggregate the data for the client in a single query.

---

## Problems with GraphQL

### Caching

Caching is built into in the HTTP specification which RESTful APIs are able to leverage. GET vs POST semantics related to caching are well defined enabling browser caches, intermediate proxies, and server frameworks to follow. The following guidelines can be followed:

-   GET requests can be cached
-   GET requests can stay in browser history
-   GET requests can be bookmarked
-   GET requests are idempotent

GraphQL doesn’t follow the HTTP spec for caching and instead uses a single endpoint. Thus, it’s up to the developer to ensure caching is implemented correctly for non-mutable queries that can be cached. The correct key has to be used for the cache which may include inspecting the body contents.

### Exposed for arbitrary requests

While a main benefit of GraphQL is to enable clients to query for just the data they need, this can also be problematic especially for open APIs where an organization cannot control 3rd party client query behavior. Great care has to be taken to ensure GraphQL queries don’t result in expensive join queries that can bring down server performance or even DDoS the server. RESTful APIs can be constrained to match data model and indexing used.

---

## Conclusion

GraphQL APIs can be exciting new technology, but it is important to understand the tradeoffs before making such architectural decisions. Some APIs such as those with very few entities and relationships across entities like analytics APIs may not be suited for GraphQL. Whereas applications with many different domain objects like e-commerce where you have items, users, orders, payments, and so on may be able to leverage GraphQL much more.

