`useEffect` is a React Hook that lets you implement component lifecycle methods like`componentDidMount`, `componentDidUpdate`, and `componentWillUnmount`. Also it allows you to perform **side effects** in your components like fetching data, directly updating the DOM and timers.

**Basic syntax**
```jsx
useEffect(callback, dependencies?)
```

The function passed to **useEffect** is a callback function or setup function. This will be called after the component renders.

In this function, we can perform our side effects or multiple side effects if we want.

The second argument is an array, called the **dependencies array**. This array should include all of the values that our side effect relies upon. If we want to invoke callback function on component mount we can pass an empty dependency array. If we does not pass deps, callback function will invoke on each re-render. 

Return value of setup function should be cleanup function which invokes when component unmounts.

**React calls your setup and cleanup functions whenever it’s necessary, which may happen multiple times:**

1.  Your setup code runs when your component is added to the page _(mounts)_.
2.  After every re-render of your component where the dependencies have changed:
    -   First, your cleanup code runs with the old props and state.
    -   Then, your setup code runs with the new props and state.
3.  Your cleanup code runs one final time after your component is removed from the page _(unmounts)_.

---

## Component lifecycle methods

**Mount** of component. It usefull when we need to subscribe to some event. Or make a request to the server.
```jsx
useEffect(() => {  
    console.log("Mount")  
}, [])
```

**Unmount** of component. It usefull when we need to unsubscribe from some events.
```jsx
useEffect(() => {  
    return () => {  
        console.log("Unmount")  
    }
}, [])
```

**Update**, when `count` is changed, the callback function will invoke
```jsx
useEffect(() => {  
    console.log(count, "Update")  
}, [count])
```

---

## Fetching data

**Example of fetching data on mount**
```jsx
export default function Page() {

useEffect(() => {
    fetchBio('Alice').then(setBio);
}, []);
```

### async/await in useEffect

The first parameter useEffect() takes a function and that function must either return nothing or return a function to reset the effect. This places some restriction on the use of `async` functions

**Bad**
```jsx
useEffect(async () => {
  const data = await axios.get('/todos');
  // ...
}, []);
```

If you use `async`, the function already returns `Promise` - this breaks the rule above. To avoid this, you can wrap the async call in a function and call that function inside `useEffect`

**Good**
```jsx
useEffect(() => {
  const requestData = async () => {
    const data = await axios.get('/todos');
    // ...
    };
}, [])
```

## Caveats

-   `useEffect` is a Hook, so you can only call it **at the top level of your component** or your own Hooks. You can’t call it inside loops or conditions. If you need that, extract a new component and move the state into it.
- When `Strict Mode` is on, React will **run one extra development-only setup+cleanup cycle** before the first real setup.
- If some of your dependencies are objects or functions defined inside the component, there is a risk that they will **cause the Effect to re-run more often than needed.** To fix this, remove unnecessary object and function dependencies.
- If your Effect wasn’t caused by an interaction (like a click), **React will let the browser paint the updated screen first before running your Effect**. If your Effect is doing something visual (for example, positioning a tooltip), and the delay is noticeable (for example, it flickers), you need to replace `useEffect` with `useLayoutEffect`.
- Effects **only run on the client.** They don’t run during server rendering.