`useState` is a React Hook that lets you add a **state variable** to your component. State generally refers to data or properties that need to be tracking in an application.

**Basic syntax**
```jsx
const [state, setState] = useState(initialState)
```

`useState` returns an array with exactly two items:

1.  The **current state** of this state variable, initially set to the **initial state** you provided.
2.  The `set` function that lets you change it to any other value in response to interaction.

To update what’s on the screen, call the `set` function with some next state:

```js
function handleClick() {  setName('Robin');}
```

---

## Updating state based on the previous state

Suppose the `age` is `42`. This handler calls `setAge(age + 1)` three times:

```js
function handleClick() {
  setAge(age + 1); // setAge(42 + 1)
  setAge(age + 1); // setAge(42 + 1)
  setAge(age + 1); // setAge(42 + 1)
}
```

To solve this problem, **you may pass an _updater function_** to `setAge` instead of the next state:

```js
function handleClick() {
  setAge(a => a + 1); // setAge(42 => 43)
  setAge(a => a + 1); // setAge(43 => 44)
  setAge(a => a + 1); // setAge(44 => 45)
}
```

Here, `a => a + 1` is your updater function. It takes the `pending state` and calculates the `next state` from it.

---
## Updating objects and arrays in state

You can put objects and arrays into state. In React, state is considered read-only, so **you should _replace_ it rather than _mutate_ your existing objects**. For example, if you have a `form` object in state, don’t update it like this:

```js
// 🚩 Don't mutate an object in state like this:  

form.firstName = 'Taylor';
```

React cannot update `form`  state in this way because React doesn't know what was changed. We changed the property of `form` object but the ***reference*** remains the same.

Instead, replace the whole object by creating a new one:

```js
// ✅ Replace state with a new object
setForm({
  ...form,
  firstName: 'Taylor'
});
```

Here we changed the ***reference*** of `state` object by creation of new one. And now React knows was changed and can re-render the component.

---

## Avoiding recreating the initial state

React saves the initial state once and ignores it on the next renders.

```js
function TodoList() {
  const [todos, setTodos] = useState(createInitialTodos());
  // ...
```

Although the result of `createInitialTodos()` is only used for the initial render, you’re still calling this function on every render. This can be wasteful if it’s creating large arrays or performing expensive calculations.

To solve this, you may **pass it as an _initializer_ function** to `useState` instead:

```js
function TodoList() {
  const [todos, setTodos] = useState(createInitialTodos);
  // ...
```


```ad-important
Notice that you’re passing `createInitialTodos`, which is the _function itself_, and not `createInitialTodos()`, which is the result of calling it. If you pass a function to `useState`, React will only call it during initialization.
```

